# Intro to Ruby

## LOs
SWBAT
- Write a list of each of Ruby's main data types and give an example of each.
- Run a Ruby program in a REPL.
- Give a real-world analogy that describes the relationship of inputs, outputs, and side effects.
- Cast a given variable to a different given type.
- Use an enumerator to test the contents of a collection against a condition.
- Compare and contrast a library and a framework.
- Create and execute a program that accepts and manipulates user input.

## Why do you want to learn Ruby?
There are hundreds of programming languages!

...probably because of Rails.

## Why I don't like Ruby

...at least, not as a first programming language.

It's expressive, as opposed to strict. It lets you write code however you want.
- Lets you break the rules before you know them.

### Your first Ruby

http://www.repl.it

```
puts("Hello");
puts("Hello")
puts "Hello"
```
These all work. In many languages, that would make the computer yell at you.

```
puts Hello
```

NOW it's yelling at us.

## What does a program do?

- It manipulates data
- Not all data is equal
- Different data "types"
  - Strings
  - Floats
  - Integers (Fixnum)
  - Booleans
    - TrueClass
    - FalseClass
    - nil

## Variables
```
name = gets.chomp
```

## Basic methods
```
chomp
upcase!
downcase!
to_s
  => typecasting
to_i
```

https://github.com/ga-dc/ruby_vars_quiz

## How is data stored?

- Symbols

## Conditions
```
if [condition] then
  qwer
elsif
  asdf
else
  zxcv
end
```

## You do: make the first 3 quiz questions into an interactive quiz!

## Loops
```
10.times do
end

(1..10).each do |num|
  puts num
end
```

## You do: FizzBuzz

## Methods

## You do again: FizzBuzz, as a method

## Collections

Arrays

Hashes
